Previously on Hawaii Five-O...
Michelle Shioma’s 20 million.
You’re gonna get it
and hand it over.
ADAM: Jessie, this
is Mr. Kimura.
He’s an old friend
of my father’s.
What the hell is this place?
It’s sort of an unofficial bank
for the Yakuza.
I need to make a withdrawal.
We just had a body wash up
on Kaalawai Beach.
It’s Noriko, Adam’s sister.
TANI:
Adam just saved
my brother’s life. I’m supposed
to repay him by turning him in?
You’re a cop, and
you took an oath.
If Adam killed his sister,
you need to do the right thing.
Why’d you put that
at my house?
TANI:
I didn’t, Adam.
I found it there
when you were away.
You’re telling me
it’s sheer coincidence
that a gun
I’ve never seen before
turns up in my drawer
right after you’ve been there?
Let’s go, guys.
And then three hours later,
HPD shows up
with a search warrant?
But if you didn’t plant the gun
and you didn’t tip the cops,
who the hell did?
MASUDA:
Mr. Kimura.
We called you here
to relieve you of your duties.
You will no longer serve
as our banker.
Masuda-san, may I ask why?
Noriko Noshimuri.
You had her killed
and attempted to frame
Adam Noshimuri, did you not?
You are meant to be a ghost.
To move among the shadows.
Instead these rash actions
have drawn
unwelcome attention to us all.
M-Masuda-san...
I-I was protecting
your interests.
Adam Noshimuri
was withdrawing money
that was paying
his father’s debt to you.
Some things are worth more
than money.
We are sometimes allies,
sometimes rivals.
To function as our banker,
your neutrality and honor
must be unquestioned.
When you act
against any one of us,
you betray us all.
Now, in recognition
of your years of service,
we offer a choice.
Yakuza justice...
...or Five-O justice.
Hello, Mr. Kimura.
(tightens zip tie)
MAN: It’s 1:35 a.m. I’m here at
Wai’alae Beach Community Park,
where we’ve had reports
of drug activity.
Looks like we got
something here.
I now have video evidence
of a drug transaction.
I’m moving in.
Yo, are you filming me?
On your knees. I’m making
a citizen’s arrest.
Turn that off.
(grunting)
(gunshots)
(panting)
Okay, you saw
what just happened.
He pulled a gun on me.
I’m gonna need to wait here
for the police to file a report
and turn over the firearm.
Hopefully they can ID our perp
and track him down.
In the meantime...
...let’s take a look
and see what we got here.
Looks like about a dozen bags
of methamphetamine.
Not a bad night’s work.
The good people of Hawaii
can sleep safer tonight
knowing that these drugs are...
(tires squealing)
(grunting)
Please, no. No!
(gunshots)
(Hawaii Five-O
theme song playing)
♪ ♪
(camera clicking)
LUKELA:
Victim is Gene Wahale.
He’s a self-proclaimed
vigilante.
Calls himself
the Night Sentinel.
He liked to go around the island
making videos of himself
confronting criminals.
Please, no. No!
Well, shooter’s wearing a mask.
Camera didn’t get
the vehicle’s plates.
All right, let’s put
out a BOLO, Duke,
for a gray sedan with
some front end damage.
All right, I’ll take a shot.
Uh, say our dealer had somebody
posted up like a lookout.
He sees the altercation,
gets in his car,
runs the guy over.
LUKELA:
One problem with that.
The dealer’s backpack
is still here.
Let me see.
Over there.
There’s over five grand
in cash and drugs
still in it.
Sounds like this isn’t connected
to the murder.
Looks to me like maybe somebody
trailed our vic here.
Waited, saw this confrontation,
saw it
as the perfect opportunity.
Took him out.
As tragic as this is,
it’s hardly surprising.
GROVER: Yeah.
Guys like this try
to be heroes.
They jump into situations
they’re not trained for.
They put themselves
and the public at risk.
They should just leave law
enforcement to professionals.
DANNY: I agree.
You know, you see
a couple Batman movies,
doesn’t make you a superhero.
Right? Let alone a cop.
Right, right.
Thanks, Duke.
GROVER:
Jer.
What are you doing here?
I met him once...
when he was on patrol.
I got a picture.
You want to see?
Sure.
(phone beeps)
(Jerry sighs)
People say they want to make a
difference in their communities,
but Night Sentinel
actually did something.
Guy was fearless.
Yeah, I mean, you know,
you get involved
in the kind of stuff
he’s involved with,
eventually you’re gonna make
some enemies, right?
Yeah, but the
people that matter,
the folks
in these neighborhoods,
they loved him.
Made ’em feel safe.
This park used to be
a no-go zone.
Now it’s, I don’t know,
maybe the odd dealer.
Night Sentinel
was winning the war.
Well, speaking of that,
uh, Jerry,
how long was this war going on?
THIEF:
Come on, give me your wallet.
WOMAN:
I don’t have anything, I swear.
GENE:
I’m making a citizen’s arrest.
(grunts)
It’s okay. It’s gonna be okay.
These videos go back to 2015,
when Night Sentinel first
came on the scene.
There’s over a hundred of them,
and those are just the ones
he deemed good enough to post.
GROVER:
According to HPD records,
Gene Wahale made 37
citizen’s arrests.
Everything from vandalism
to armed robbery.
This guy was
a serious vigilante.
His bread and butter seemed
to be the drug trade.
That accounts for two-thirds
of his busts.
That’s the other thing--
you take out enough dealers,
you’re gonna seriously impact
somebody’s distribution network.
Now, that’s got
to have consequences.
Mm-hmm, and the comments
on these videos
seem to be making
the same point.
Check this out.
I-I don’t know what that means.
Can you help me, millennials?
Okay, well, gangs now use
emoji code to make threats.
So, scissors means
"I’m gonna cut you."
And then look at this one.
Skull, right arrow,
fire emoji?
"Die in a fire."
And those are
some of the nicer ones.
Okay, clearly half the island’s
criminals wanted this guy dead.
STEVE: Why’d you post
those threatening comments?
NIKO:
Sorry, guys,
you can keep asking,
it’s not gonna change my answer.
Never heard of no Gene...
STEVE:
Wahale. Gene Wahale.
Or Night Sentinel,
as he liked to call himself
when he was out making citizen’s
arrests of local drug dealers.
GROVER:
Like your brother.
He’s the guy who, uh, put
him away for ten years.
Any bells going off now?
Sorry, still no idea
what you’re talking about.
Yeah, okay, Niko,
how about this?
I’m gonna give you a little
tip, okay, for your life.
If you ever manage to
spend any substantial time
outside of a prison, and
you want to kill somebody,
don’t tell them,
don’t write it down,
"I want to kill you,"
i-in the comments section
of their page. Okay?
GROVER:
And remember,
two Ls in "kill."
Okay. Okay.
Am I glad the freak’s dead?
Sure.
And, yes, I-I love my brother.
But I’m not interested
in becoming his cellmate.
You expect us to believe
that, uh, all that talk
was just, what, idle threats?
Is that it?
Like I told the cops,
last night I was
at one of the island’s
finest gentleman’s clubs
till around 3:00 a.m.
Dropped two Gs
on my credit card.
You can check that
if you want.
Hmm, maybe I’m not
as dumb as I look, huh?
GROVER:
Yeah, ’cause
nothing says genius
like dropping two grand
at a strip club.
Doofus.
So, Niko’s alibi
at the club checked out.
He’s not our guy.
Well, of course not.
Neither are the other
16 guys we’ve been looking into,
and they were the most
promising ones we had.
We got a bunch more names
on that list.
True, but no one who’s
been convicted and sentenced.
Our guy was a thorn
in the side of local hoods.
But most of those cases
are still tied up
in the legal system,
and a bunch of them have just
fallen apart over due process.
Evidence contamination,
chain of custody,
false imprisonment.
Wait a minute. Hold on.
If-if the guys that
Night Sentinel had arrested
are getting off light,
it doesn’t make any sense
that they’d be risking
murder charges.
Maybe this wasn’t retaliation
for a bust after all.
Okay, well, then what was it?
TANI: Well, you know, at least
you don’t have to keep looking
over your shoulder
everywhere you go now.
It’s also not the worst way to
start your career at Five-O.
You know, bringing in
Kimura on a murder charge.
It was an easy arrest.
Kimura knew that spending
the rest of his life
in a six-by-eight
was far better
than what the Yakuza
would have done to him.
True that.
Hey, listen, Tani.
Um, I want
to thank you for...
helping me
get through all this.
And for believing in me,
even when it looked like
maybe you shouldn’t.
Yeah, well...
after everything
you did for Koa...
it was the least
I could do.
Oh. Hey.
JERRY:
McGarrett asked me
to meet you here.
Thought you might need
my nerd-fu.
Your nerd-fu’s
always welcome.
Hi. You can let us in now.
♪ ♪
Wow.
Either Gene Wahale was
a total slob, or...
Someone was in here
looking for something.
I’m gonna check out
the back.
Boy, that must be one
of the last pictures
Gene had with his parents.
They were killed in a
home invasion robbery
when he was ten.
Orphaned kid goes on
to fight crime.
That’s a classic
superhero origin story.
Except whoever
tossed this place
wasn’t interested
in sentimental value.
Or actual value.
They left behind
a first edition
Martian Chronicles.
That’s got to be worth
a pretty penny.
I also noticed an Xbox, some
cash and a statue of Ultraman.
That’s got to be
worth a few hundred.
You know Ultraman?
(chuckles): Yeah.
Every kid in Japan
grew up wanting
to be Ultraman.
Susumu Kurobe was
my Christopher Reeve.
Cool.
So our intruder wasn’t looking
for an actual payday.
They must have been looking
for something specific.
TANI:
Guys, you want to come in here?
What did you find?
I got wires and plugs,
but no computer or hard drive.
Must be what was taken.
Yeah, and I have
an idea why.
So, if what this guy
put online
was just a fraction
of what he recorded,
then that would mean
that he’s sitting on
hundreds and hundreds of hours
of raw footage.
Wahale spent his time
documenting suspected criminals.
Maybe he caught
something on tape,
possibly without
realizing it,
something that was
a threat to someone.
Yeah, well, here’s the thing.
Gene wasn’t an amateur.
These videos were
his livelihood.
So the drives may be gone,
but I’m willing to bet
he had an online backup.
STEVE:
Hey. I heard we got something.
TANI: We do.
Yeah, thanks to Jerry,
we now have access
to Gene Wahale’s
online data storage.
JERRY:
It’s over three terabytes
of data, but a couple things
stood out immediately.
First up...
Hi.
WOMAN:
Hey, stop that.
(man grunts)
Crime’s the problem.
I’m the solution.
WOMAN:
Who are you?
Wow.
I’m the Guardian.
I guard.
Okay, who is
this idiot?
Well, if Night Sentinel’s Oahu’s
original vigilante hero...
Guardian is
the young upstart.
He talked smack about Gene
in his videos.
Someone send a link
to Night Sentinel,
so he can see
how it’s really done.
He was
always trying
to drum up some
kind of rivalry.
So they had a beef?
Well, none of
the real fans
actually took
Guardian seriously.
In fact, even Night
Sentinel pretty much
just ignored him.
Well, he took him
seriously enough
to keep a file on the guy.
Do you really think
that this guy
had something to do
with killing our victim
over who was a better superhero?
No, but there’s
real money at stake here--
both these guys were selling
ad space on their
YouTube channels,
and that’s a solid
stream of revenue,
one that’s based on
clicks and subscribers,
and also, they’re in
competition with each other.
There you go. I mean,
I can’t imagine this island
is big enough
to support more than one
of these hometown heroes.
ADAM:
And then there’s this.
It’s a recording of a
threatening voice mail
our victim received.
(distorted):
You’re not getting the message.
Drop your investigation
or pay the price.
It sounds like
my ex-mother-in-law.
It sounds like a threat.
Can we unscramble that?
Crime lab’s working on it
right now,
but with digital
voice distortion,
it’s gonna be difficult.
Okay, let’s just say that
the Guardian left that message.
Uh, I think what
we need to focus on
is what was it that he didn’t
want the other guy to find out.
I think I may have an idea.
How do we find this guy?
DANNY:
I-I get...
wanting to make
a difference, okay?
That’s why I became a cop.
But you got to be
a real specific kind of psycho
to want to put on, you know,
tights and fight crime.
There’s got to be
something wrong with you.
I don’t know.
You don’t know?
Well, I mean,
I kind of get
the appeal-- I mean, who didn’t
grow up wanting to be Batman?
You know
what I mean?
I-I didn’t want to be Batman.
Or Robin, whatever.
Didn’t-didn’t want to be Robin.
I’m sure you’d like that.
But no.
Maybe Superman, right?
’Cause he could, you know...
he could fly,
and he was bulletproof,
shoot lasers out of his eye.
Batman was just...
Batman was just a guy.
Exactly.
Batman’s just a guy--
he wasn’t born
with superpowers.
That guy had to train hard.
He had to put in years
of work and time and
get himself to that...
you know, that absolute peak
of human conditioning
so he could save the world.
I mean, he just inherited money.
What’d he really do?
Inherit money and bought
a bunch of Batmobiles.
But he’s not very special.
Are you out of your mind?
Bruce Wayne’s parents
were killed right in front
him when he was a kid.
You’re giving him grief
for that?
No, I’m not, ’cause he’s
not even a real person.
Okay? All right,
when I was a child,
I liked superheroes, right?
Then I grew up,
and I decided I wanted
to do other things, like, uh,
meet girls and move out
of my parents’ basement.
I adjusted to life
as an adult human,
like most people...
normal people do.
You understand?
I just figured it out.
I just figured out
what your superpower is.
What’d you figure out?
Really?
You can irritate
people to death.
Is that it? Okay. All right.
Keep going, see what happens.
I think it’s
right up here.
Just got a tip
about a robbery in progress,
(whispers):
and it was dead-on.
Looks like I beat the cops here.
Per usual.
But that’s cool, ’cause
where the Guardian walks...
he walks alone.
MAN:
Freeze!
Everybody get down!
(woman screams)
WOMAN:
Call the cops!
(grunting)
(siren approaching)
STEVE: Five-O!
We’re experiencing
some technical difficulties.
Put it down.
I’m gonna fix it ASAP.
Thanks. Bye.
Put it down.
Don’t shoot.
The gun isn’t real.
None of it is.
Turn that off.
Turn it off.
Can I give you
some constructive criticism?
Maybe don’t cast
the same actor
in every video you make.
I’m just saying
for the sake
of authenticity, okay?
DANNY: Yeah,
I mean, I seen you
a month ago-- you were
about to jump off a bridge,
and then, before that,
you were getting mugged,
and now you’re robbing
a liquor store.
I mean, the range,
I admire your range.
Very good.
Thank you.
Look, I-I can explain
everything.
Go ahead. Please.
♪ ♪
That seems super excessive.
It’s just a beanbag,
but it’s definitely gonna sting.
(grunts)
Excuse me.
Can Superman do that?
Dude,
you shot me!
With a beanbag.
It doesn’t count.
You should be thanking him
for his restraint.
What happened to
the other guy?
Uh, this is Mr. Ortega.
The other guy’s, uh,
sitting this one out.
Mr. Ortega’s gonna
ask you questions today,
since he has a personal,
vested interest in the case.
Uh, doesn’t than mean he
shouldn’t be involved, then?
(distorted):
You’re not getting the message.
Drop your investigation
or pay the price.
That’s you threatening
to kill Night Sentinel
a week before he turns up dead.
Wait. Wait. What?
He found out
you were faking your busts.
He was gonna expose you,
so you tried to scare him
into backing off.
When that didn’t work, you
were left with one option:
kill Night Sentinel
and destroy the evidence.
Whoa, j-just slow down, brah,
like, like, all the way down.
(chuckles):
Okay?
I didn’t know
he was-he was onto me,
I also never made any
threatening phone calls,
and-and I damn sure
didn’t kill anybody, man.
Would you like us
to play a highlight reel
of you talking smack
about Wahale?
The YouTube videos? Oh, please.
I mean, don’t believe everything
you see on the Internet.
I’m, I’m an entertainer.
Like pro wrestlers.
You create a beef
and you generate some heat
and i-it’s good for everybody.
Night Sentinel didn’t think so.
(chuckles):
Yeah. I mean, no kidding.
He took all that
way too seriously.
I mean, what
kind of psycho
throws down
with real criminals, you know?
Real heroes take down
real criminals!
That only sounds
crazy to you
’cause you’re a coward.
I prefer "risk-averse."
You’re a fraud.
And if Night Sentinel
went public with your scam,
you would lose your reputation,
your fans, your entire income.
We looked at your finances.
Without this, you got nothing.
No, no, no. That’s not true.
I’m a licensed personal trainer.
I can go back to that
any time. Okay?
He was the one that was
having money problems.
STEVE:
Oh.
What are you talking about?
I heard that the Night Sentinel
was liquidating
his comic book collection.
Okay? So, for a
guy like him...
(chuckles)
...uh, to do that,
he had to be desperate for cash.
I got to say, Jerry, for
your first crack at rendition,
you nailed it.
You’re a natural, buddy.
Yeah? How was my bad cop?
Unbelievable. You were
born to play that part.
(laughs)
All right, so we go through
the vic’s insurance policy.
Therein is contained a comic
book collection worth 30 grand.
$30,000 for...
Yes.
And, uh, there was no evidence
of a collection that size
at his place, so we think
he probably unloaded it.
Must have taken a while to put
it together. Why sell it now?
Yeah, that’s a good question.
And as far as we can tell,
there wasn’t any history of,
you know,
major debt or financial issues.
Okay. Y-You don’t think
it’s a little strange
this man would sell his $30,000
comic book collection
so close to the time
of his murder?
Sir, uh, HPD got
a hit on your BOLO.
The car that hit our victim
was found abandoned
at Waianae Kai
Forest Reserve.
Turns out it was stolen
from long-term parking
at the airport.
CSU’s processing as we speak,
but it looks like
it was wiped clean.
Bye-bye, prints;
bye-bye, DNA.
Yeah.
This is where we found
the killer’s vehicle.
It’s a pretty remote area.
Well, I doubt our perp
walked back from there.
Maybe he had an accomplice
to come pick him up.
STEVE: Or he called
a car service.
Adam, do me a favor.
Reach out to all
ride-share and taxi companies,
see if anybody picked up
a fare nearby.
You got it.
In the meantime,
we need to figure out
why our vic sold
his comic book collection.
TANI:
Good place to start could be
finding out who bought it.
There are seven comic book
stores on this island.
You know how I know that?
Because I’ve driven my son
to every damn one of ’em.
JERRY: Right, but
there’s only one place
that’s willing to pay fair
value for top-tier titles.
Other Realms.
Yeah, I’m no stranger
to that place.
I’ve dropped a ton
of cash in there.
Okay, well, you’re gonna go back
and pay ’em a visit today.
Take Jerry with, please.
All right, Scary Jerry.
JERRY:
So, Will’s a collector, huh?
Yeah, he is.
Got boxes upon boxes
upon boxes of those things.
And the whole works, too;
the cellophane wrappers,
the cardboard.
He’s even got an app
to keep track of
all his inventory and
whatever he does with it.
Personally, I don’t get it.
Comics are modern mythology.
You know, stories about heroes
and demigods
that inspire us
to do great things.
Well, the only thing
it’s inspiring
my son to do is take up
all the space in my garage
and spend all my money.
You know, when I was a kid,
you read your comic.
When you get finished
with your comic,
you give it to one of your
friends, or you trade it
with one of your friends,
you know.
But I tell you what,
I wish I would have
saved some of them things.
They got to be worth
a fortune now.
So you read comics, too.
Oh, yeah.
You ever wish you were
a superhero?
All the time.
Walter Payton.
That wasn’t a superhero.
I saw the man play.
Superhuman.
What about you?
Who’d you want to be?
Batgirl.
You want to elaborate on that?
When she debuted in the ’60s,
Batgirl had to fight
to be accepted by Batman
and Robin.
I mean, she was just as
capable as they were,
but they didn’t
take her seriously
’cause she didn’t look like them
or do things the same way
as they did.
But she proved she was
just as good and became a highly
valued member of the team.
She’d trust them,
they’d trust her,
and they were stronger
because of it.
That’s a good story.
Batgirl, huh?
(both chuckling)
(door chimes)
(Star Trek theme song playing)
Jeremiah.
How goes it?
Hey, Sharon.
Jeremiah?
It’s a comic reference.
Oh.
Jeremiah is a Franco-Belgian
sci-fi title from the ’70s.
There’s also Jeremiah Arkham,
the director of Arkham
Asylum from the DC Universe.
But that one’s so obvious.
Yeah, I was just about to say
it was obvious.
I think you’re really gonna like
this week’s batch, Jer.
It’s a nice balance
between indie and mainstream.
Hey, you look familiar.
You’ve been in here
before, right?
Oh, yeah, with my son Will.
He’s obsessed with
Green Lantern and Black Widow.
Although for very
different reasons.
(chuckles)
I’m Lou Grover.
I work with Jeremiah.
Mm-hmm.
Actually, Sharon,
Captain Grover and I are
here on business.
We’re looking into the
murder of Gene Wahale,
the Night Sentinel.
I can’t believe it.
So I take it you knew him.
Oh, yeah, I mean,
Gene’s been a regular
for as long as
I can remember.
He’s my only customer who was
a bona fide superhero.
I always worried
something like this
might happen to him.
JERRY: We learned that
Gene recently
sold off his comic collection.
Did you happen to buy
any titles off him?
Yeah. All of them.
He liquidated the entire thing.
GROVER: He must have
needed the money
pretty badly; do you
have any idea why?
As a matter of fact, I do.
Gentlemen,
I present to you
issue number one
of The Mysterious
Night Sentinel.
JERRY:
Whoa. Awesome.
I can’t believe
The Night Sentinel wrote
an actual comic about himself.
GROVER: Wait a second, he spent
all that money on this book?
Yeah, this and three
subsequent issues.
I run a small press
out of my shop,
and I was happy
to cut Gene a deal.
But between the artist
and the inker
and the lettering
and printing costs,
it required a big
outlay of cash.
So, he wasn’t in any trouble?
Not that I know of.
He was just determined
to tell this story.
It’s tragic he’ll
never see it finished.
I just printed the mock-up
this morning.
Well, so much for
the smoking gun.
Hold on.
There’s a proud tradition of
comics based on creators’ lives.
This is highly stylized,
but it’s clearly
based on Gene’s life.
So it could help us figure out
why he was killed.
GROVER:
All right, well,
we’re gonna need
all your materials on this.
Sure. He was partway
through issue four.
I’ll put the digital files
on a zip drive for you.
Jerry.
Oh, and you can go ahead
and ring me up for those
comics while you’re at it.
Really?
What?
JERRY: So, I read through
the Night Sentinel comics.
Definitely a lot of overlap
with real life.
For starters,
the main character witnesses
his parents’ murder during
a home invasion robbery,
just like Gene.
Wow. Right down to the poses
in the crime scene photos.
GROVER: And they both
put on costumes
and go out and
beat people up.
Okay, but here’s
the interesting part.
In the comic, our hero believes
that his reporter dad was killed
to cover up a conspiracy
he was investigating.
And this is Gene’s father,
Trevor Wahale.
STEVE:
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
Hold up.
I remember this guy.
I remember he was, uh,
an investigative reporter
for Channel Ten, I think,
when I was a kid, right?
He used to expose all
kinds of shady stuff.
Tell me something,
did HPD ever look into
any old grudges people may have
had against Trevor Wahale?
GROVER: Well,
I looked into it,
and according to
the police report,
there’s no indication
that Trevor Wahale’s murder
has anything to do with anything
except a robbery gone bad.
STEVE:
Okay, so,
either the conspiracy
part of the comic book
was pure fiction,
or there was more to the
parents’ death than it seemed.
Maybe that’s what that
threatening phone call
was about.
Maybe someone was
calling Gene to warn him
to stop looking into
how his father died.
GROVER: If he was looking
into it at all.
I mean, if he was researching
his father’s death,
we found no evidence of it
in his apartment
or on his cloud storage.
Hold on a second.
In the comic, the hero’s got
a sanctum sanctorum.
Jerry, English?
A hidden room.
Like-like the Batcave.
Okay, there. See?
Night Sentinel pulls a copy
of Homer’s Iliad from the shelf,
and a hidden door
swings open,
revealing this sweet,
tricked out lair.
And I’m certain I saw a copy
of The Iliad
on Gene Wahale’s bookshelf.
Okay. All right,
why don’t you guys go
hit that apartment,
check it out.
Here it goes.
Moment of truth.
Hmm.
Mm. I guess life doesn’t
always imitate art.
Maybe not exactly.
Joons, give me a hand
with this, would you, please?
We’re gonna go this way.
All right.
Here we go.
Well done, Jerry.
(sighs)
I’m guessing we found
what Wahale was investigating.
Yeah, whoever tossed the place,
this is exactly what
they were looking for.
I got a box of VHS tapes
from Trevor Wahale’s TV station.
I got freedom of information
requests, HPD reports.
Some of these things go back
20 years, some are recent.
It looks like Gene was picking
up his father’s investigation
right where it left off, looking
into the same conspiracy.
Yeah.
And that conspiracy
got ’em both killed.
We’ve since contacted the
prosecuting attorney’s office,
who told us they will be opening
an official investigation
into the abuse at the
Golden Days Nursing Home.
For KAHU on your side,
I’m Trevor Wahale.
All right, there are tapes
and tapes of this stuff.
These hard-hitting segments
exposing anything from
shady auto mechanics
to restaurant health code
violations.
It’s kind of poetic,
if you think about it.
In a way, Gene was taking up
his father’s cause.
Exactly. They’re both
crusaders for justice.
It’s like Golden Age
and Silver Age Green Lanterns.
Just go with it.
JUNIOR: Okay, well,
do we know which one of his
father’s investigative pieces
Gene was looking into
when he was killed?
Actually, we believe we do.
This is retired HPD Captain
Ito Ishikawa.
And this other guy
is Frank Willoughby,
forensics analyst.
Now, according to
Trevor Wahale’s notes,
he was investigating
a conspiracy
involving the two men.
JERRY: Yeah, Wahale believed
that Willoughby and the captain
were working together
falsifying forensic evidence
in a number of criminal cases.
And in doing so,
put a lot of innocent people
in prison.
STEVE: Okay, time out.
I never met Captain Ishikawa,
but my father
used to speak of this man
very, very highly.
He has a rock-solid reputation.
Okay, that may be,
but Gene must have believed
there was something to
his father’s theory
because, based on his notes,
he met with
more than 20 inmates
that were allegedly affected
by the drummed up evidence.
TANI: Yeah, and I
looked into Frank Willoughby.
He died back in the ’90s, but
the guy’s record is spotless.
He even served on the State
Board of Police Forensics.
Any surviving relatives?
Actually, yeah,
he has a daughter, Claire.
She still lives
on the island.
Okay, good, good.
Because before we bring in
a highly respected police
captain for questioning,
let’s talk to
Willoughby’s daughter,
see if she can tell us anything.
CLAIRE:
I was so sorry to hear
what happened to Gene;
it’s terrible.
Claire, how’d you know him?
I-I didn’t.
Not personally.
But a couple of weeks ago,
he e-mailed,
asking if we could meet.
We were supposed to meet
this week for coffee.
Do you know what
he wanted to discuss?
Yes.
Years ago,
shortly before Dad died,
Gene’s father Trevor
came by to interview him.
At that point, Dad’s cancer
was pretty far advanced.
The doctors had only
given him a couple more weeks.
People in that situation,
uh, sometimes
they just want to get things
off of their chest.
You know, um,
clear their conscience.
Trevor Wahale recorded
Dad’s confession.
Uh, something about a-a scheme
to boost conviction rates.
(exhales)
Do you know if your father
implicated anyone else
in his confession?
I don’t know. To be honest,
I never wanted to know.
But Mr. Wahale left
with that tape,
and less than a week later,
he was dead.
JUNIOR:
Well, clearly, that tape’s
what got
our vic’s father killed.
He must have implicated
some powerful men.
All right, so they kill him,
get the tape back
and make it look like a robbery.
If Captain Ishikawa
was involved,
I mean, he would’ve been
in the perfect position
to deflect any scrutiny,
and to make sure
any inconvenient evidence
got swept under the rug.
Case closed. Except, not,
because 20 years later,
Wahale’s son Gene digs
the whole thing up,
and now they got
to take him out, too.
I-I think it’s time we
bring in the captain.
Captain Ishikawa,
we, uh, we really appreciate
you coming in. Thank you.
Uh, I hope you don’t mind,
but my attorney
insisted to be
present for this.
Michael Pope. Mr. Ishikawa
wants to help in any way he can.
But I’d be guilty
of malpractice
if I let him talk
to Five-O without counsel.
Okay, uh, Captain,
we are, uh, currently
investigating
Gene Wahale’s murder. Um, and we
think that there’s a connection
to Trevor Wahale, his father,
from 20 years ago.
I remember the
Wahale case well.
I was the first on
the scene, and, uh,
found the boy hiding
under the bed.
Trauma like that, well, that’s
not something you ever get over.
See, the thing is, Captain,
Gene, uh,
Gene didn’t believe
that robbery was the motive.
I mean, he was convinced
that it was
some kind of
conspiracy,
and I-I don’t bring this up
lightly, sir,
but he seemed to think
that you were involved somehow.
POPE: We’re aware
of these allegations.
They’re completely
baseless.
Uh, it’s okay, Michael.
Um, look, uh,
Gene never got over
what happened.
And, uh, naturally,
as he got older,
he started looking for someone
to blame, so he started
making wild
accusations.
I just chalked it up to him
trying to make sense of it all.
POPE:
Uh, gentlemen,
I don’t mean
to denigrate the dead,
but we’re talking about a man
who dressed up as a superhero
and confronted
dangerous criminals.
Captain Ishikawa,
on the other hand,
I’ve personally known
for many years,
and his career and character
are beyond reproach.
So unless
there’s something else...
Uh, (clears throat)
look, I-I know the job.
All right? As captain,
you’re under a lot of pressure,
all right, to, uh, to figure out
what’s going on,
uh, close
a lot of cases...
Exactly what are you suggesting?
STEVE:
We have uncovered
information indicating
that in the ’90s,
forensic expert Frank Willoughby
was falsifying evidence in order
to boost conviction rates.
DANNY: Which happened
on your watch.
POPE: Do you have
any evidence
connecting my client
to this alleged scheme?
Because unless you’re charging
him with something,
I’m concluding
this interview.
Now.
I’m sorry, Commander.
Please be advised, any further
discussions with Mr. Ishikawa
will take place in a
more formal setting.
No more fishing expeditions.
(elevator chimes)
Well, that went well.
Yeah.
Next time I get divorced,
I want that guy
to represent me.
Hey, I got something.
I tracked down a taxi service
that picked up a fare
early this morning, right near
where our killer’s car
was ditched.
Well, the driver get a name?
No. And the passenger paid
cash, but he was dropped off
at the Kapuloha Garden
Apartments in Waikiki.
We’re pulling a list
of residents, seeing if anyone
has a record or any other flags
in the system.
All right,
I got a quicker way.
Hey.
Here’s the headrest
from our stolen vehicle.
(barks)
All right, Eddie, get a scent.
Get a scent. What a good boy.
What a good boy.
Okay, okay. Now find.
Find. Find.
Good boy. Let’s go.
Good boy.
(Eddie panting)
(sniffing)
Okay, okay.
Okay, come on-- good boy.
Good boy.
♪ ♪
(growls softly)
Move in.
Hey! Hey!
We I.D.’d him. His name
is Darrel Wentz, 27.
Multiple felony charges.
JUNIOR: Including
a stint in Halawa
for assault
with a deadly weapon.
27. Wait a minute,
this doesn’t make any sense.
Wentz was a kid when Trevor
Wahale was killed. H-He couldn’t
have had any interest
in an old police conspiracy.
Then he must’ve been
hired by someone who did.
Wentz was a trigger man.
Yeah. He was also our best lead.
So our hired gun’s record shows
a long history of assault.
Most recently,
he pistol-whipped a guy so badly
that he fractured
his orbital bone,
almost blinding him.
All right, this is,
this is less than two years ago,
and he had priors.
Yeah. Why is he not
still in prison, right?
I can answer that question.
I just got off the phone with
my contact at the courthouse
who told me that just last
month, Mr. Wentz here
had his sentence reduced
to time served.
Released years
ahead of schedule.
Seems like his fancy lawyer
made these arrangements,
and it’s the same fancy lawyer
that represents
Captain Ishikawa.
Michael Pope.
What’s an upscale attorney
like Michael Pope doing
representing a two-bit hit man?
Hmm...
STEVE: Ah, you see, Gene Wahale
was onto the right conspiracy.
He just had the wrong guy.
DANNY: Yeah,
you were right.
Captain Ishikawa is a,
is a good guy, honest guy.
You were the one working
with Willoughby. Not him.
(chuckles):
This is ridiculous.
No, it’s not ridiculous.
You were the prosecuting
attorney on all of those cases.
And you were so keen to make
a big name for yourself,
you didn’t mind padding
your conviction rate.
You did whatever
you had to do, right?
I mean, you put
innocent people
in jail, man.
That’s cold-blooded.
20 years ago, Trevor Wahale was
onto you, so you had him killed.
Then his son Gene comes up,
figures out what’s going on,
so you take care of him, too.
I see you’ve bought
into Wahale’s delusions.
But that’s all they are,
which is why
you can’t prove any of this.
POPE (over recording):
You’re not getting the message.
Drop your investigation
or pay the price.
You see, it’s much easier
to unscramble
a distorted voice message
when you know whose voice
it was in the first place.
And lucky for us, you’re all
over your firm’s website,
talking about
what a genius you are,
how impressive your record is.
A lot less impressive now.
This is the point
where, Michael Pope,
you’re under arrest.
SHARON:
Pope had a head start.
He made it to the elevator
just steps ahead of our heroes.
Pope had planned for this.
On the roof,
a private helicopter
was fueled and ready.
The ’copter took flight.
It was over,
for anyone but McGarrett.
He grabbed the struts,
launched himself
into the cockpit, and...
The helicopter dove
into a death spiral.
But against all odds,
McGarrett brought it
to a pinpoint landing
on the busy downtown street.
"Book ’em, Danno."
So, how much of that
really happened?
Well, I might have taken
a little dramatic license.
The lawyer just gave up
and let Five-O arrest him.
But that didn’t quite give
the story the climactic ending
that it deserved.
Well, I know Gene
would’ve loved this.
He’d appreciate you
finishing his story.
(door chimes)
Hey, man, let me, uh...
Yeah.
Let me do this.
Captain.
Commander.
Hey.
Duke.
Steve.
Listen, Captain,
thank you so much
for your help
with everything, and...
I’m sorry we, uh,
had to drag you through it.
Ah, not at all.
You did the right thing.
And now it’s my turn.
I intend to make sure everyone
Pope wrongly convicted
is exonerated.
LUKELA: HPD’s reopened
all the cases
that Pope and Willoughby
both worked on.
That’s awesome.
Thanks to Trevor
and Gene Wahale,
a lot of people are going
to get their lives back
because of their investigations
and sacrifice.
I just wish they
were here to see it.
Well, I mean, they kind of are.
Pretty cool Dad’s
in a comic book, huh?
Mm-hmm.
Does that mean you
and Uncle Steve are superheroes?
That’s exactly
what it means. Yeah.
Awesome.
Come on, give me that. Yeah.
Hey, brother.
Hey, what’s up
there, Mini D?
What you have there?
I should you ask you
the same question.
I just need to clear
something up here.
I thought you put down
childish things
when you moved out
of your parents’ basement?
Thanks-- yes, I did,
but, uh, he’s the child,
and it’s for him.
It’s not for me.
Oh, I see. Well,
here’s the good news:
you’re not alone. I’m with you.
Look, and all the people over
there, having a read?
DANNY:
Well, uh, you know,
nothing wrong with a little fun
for old time’s sake, right?
No, there’s not.
Captioning sponsored by
CBS
Captioned by
Media Access Group at WGBH
access.wgbh.org